test/case/ietf_interfaces/bridge_vlan_separation/Readme.adoc, before:

=== Bridge VLAN separation
==== Description
Test that two VLANs are correctly separated in the bridge

....
    ,-----------------------------------,   ,----------------------------------,
    |                         dut1:link |   | dut2:link                        |
    |                      br0  --------|---|---------  br0                    |
    |                     / \           |   |          / \                     |
    |dut1:mgmt  dut1:data1   dut1:data2 |   | dut2:data1  dut2:data2 dut2:mgmt |
    '-----------------------------------'   '----------------------------------'
        |             |        |                  |            |         |
        |             |        |                  |            |         |
 ,------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
 |  host:mgmt0 host:data10 host:data11    host:data20  host:data21  host:mgmt1  |
 |             [10.0.0.1]   [10.0.0.2]     [10.0.0.3]     [10.0.0.4]            |
 |               (ns10)       (ns11)         (ns20)         (ns21)              |
 |                                                                              |
 |                                  [ HOST ]                                    |
 '------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

....

==== Topology
ifdef::topdoc[]
image::../../test/case/ietf_interfaces/bridge_vlan_separation/topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::topdoc[]
ifndef::topdoc[]
ifdef::testgroup[]
image::bridge_vlan_separation/topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::testgroup[]
ifndef::testgroup[]
image::topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::testgroup[]
endif::topdoc[]
==== Test sequence
. Set up topology and attach to target DUT
. Configure DUTs
. Verify ping 10.0.0.3 from host:data10
. Verify ping 10.0.0.4 from host:data11
. Verify ping not possible host:data10->10.0.0.4, host:data11->10.0.0.3, host:data10->10.0.0.2, host:data11->10.0.0.1
. Verify MAC broadcast isolation within VLANs


<<<

Commit message:

test: bridge_vlan_separation: Make test more robust
Only check for the broadcast sent.

And add more test specification steps

test/case/ietf_interfaces/bridge_vlan_separation/Readme.adoc, after:

=== Bridge VLAN separation
==== Description
Test that two VLANs are correctly separated in the bridge

....
    ,-----------------------------------,   ,----------------------------------,
    |                         dut1:link |   | dut2:link                        |
    |                      br0  --------|---|---------  br0                    |
    |                     / \           |   |          / \                     |
    |dut1:mgmt  dut1:data1   dut1:data2 |   | dut2:data1  dut2:data2 dut2:mgmt |
    '-----------------------------------'   '----------------------------------'
        |             |        |                  |            |         |
        |             |        |                  |            |         |
 ,------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
 |  host:mgmt0 host:data10 host:data11    host:data20  host:data21  host:mgmt1  |
 |             [10.0.0.1]   [10.0.0.2]     [10.0.0.3]     [10.0.0.4]            |
 |               (ns10)       (ns11)         (ns20)         (ns21)              |
 |                                                                              |
 |                                  [ HOST ]                                    |
 '------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

....

==== Topology
ifdef::topdoc[]
image::../../test/case/ietf_interfaces/bridge_vlan_separation/topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::topdoc[]
ifndef::topdoc[]
ifdef::testgroup[]
image::bridge_vlan_separation/topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::testgroup[]
ifndef::testgroup[]
image::topology.svg[Bridge VLAN separation topology]
endif::testgroup[]
endif::topdoc[]
==== Test sequence
. Set up topology and attach to target DUT
. Configure DUTs
. Verify ping 10.0.0.3 from host:data10
. Verify ping 10.0.0.4 from host:data11
. Verify ping not possible host:data10->10.0.0.4, host:data11->10.0.0.3, host:data10->10.0.0.2, host:data11->10.0.0.1
. Verify MAC broadcast isolation within VLANs
. Send ping to 10.0.0.255 from host:data10
. Verify broadcast is received on host:data20
. Verify broadcast is NOT received on host:data11 and host:data21


<<<
