doc/container.md, before:

Containers in Infix
===================

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Docker Containers with Podman](#docker-containers-with-podman)
  * [Multiple Networks](#multiple-networks)
  * [Hybrid Mode](#hybrid-mode)
* [Enabling Containers](#enabling-containers)
* [Debugging Containers](#debugging-containers)


Introduction
------------

Default builds of Infix do not enable any container support.  See below
section, [Enabling Container Support](#enabling-container-support), for
details on how to enable it using Podman.

Networking in containers is provided by both Infix and the Container
Network Interface ([CNI](https://www.cni.dev/)) that Podman supports.


Docker Containers with Podman
-----------------------------

We assume you've booted into Infix and start with a familiar example:

    podman run -it --rm docker://hello-world

or a little web server:

    podman run -d --rm -p 80:80 docker://nginx:alpine

In detached (`-d`) state you can check the status using `podman ps` or
try to connect to the web server:

    curl http://localhost

or

    lynx http://localhost

> A convenience alias `docker=podman` is available, but remember, not
> all features or syntax of docker is available in podman.


### Multiple Networks

It is also possible to start a container with multiple networks.  The
approach shown here uses CNI profiles, which means the interfaces names
inside the container will always be: `eth0`, `eth1`, etc.

A common setup is to use a VETH pair, with one end in the container and
the other end routed, or bridged, to the rest of the world.  The Infix
[CLI Guide](cli.md) provides examples of both.  In either case you need
to create a matching CNI profile for one end of the VETH pair before
starting the container, here we use two network profiles, the default
podman bridge and the VETH profile:

     cni create host net1 veth0b 192.168.0.42/24
     podman run -d --rm --net=podman,net1 --entrypoint "/linuxrc" \
             --privileged docker://troglobit/buildroot:latest

The first profile (`podman`) is a the default bridged profile.  When a
container is started with that (default behavior), podman dynamically
creates a VETH pair which has one end attached as a bridge port in the
`cni-podman0` bridge managed by podman, and the other end is brought up
as `eth0` inside the container.

The second profile is the one we created, it uses the `host-device`
profile and does not create anything, it simply lifts the peer end of
the pair into the container as `eth1`.  This CNI profile can also be
used to hand over control of physical ports to a container.

> **Note:** here we start the container in `--privileged` mode.  This
> allows the container guest unfiltered access to the host system and it
> might not be what you want for a production system.  For that at least
> SECCOMP is recommended, which is out of scope for this tutorial.


### Hybrid Mode

If you've followed this tutorial then you now have a NETCONF based Infix
system running.  To run containers on it you need to leverage the Hybrid
mode, described in the README but also repeated below.

To start containers in *Hybrid Mode*, provided the images have been
downloaded with `podman pull docker://troglobit/buildroot:latest`):

```
root@infix:/cfg/start.d$ cat <<EOF >20-enable-container.sh
#!/bin/sh
# Remember to create the veth0a <--> vet0b pair in the CLI first!
cni create host net1 veth0b 192.168.0.42/24
podman-service -e -d "System container" -p "--net=podman,net1 -p 22:22 --entrypoint='/linuxrc' --privileged" buildroot:latest
exit 0
EOF
root@infix:/cfg/start.d$ chmod +x 20-enable-container.sh
```

Reboot to activate the changes.  To activate the changes without
rebooting, run the script and call `initctl reload`.

> **Note:** the `/etc` directory is a `tmpfs` ramdisk and contents will
> be lost on reboot, so to retain custom CNI profiles after reboot you
> need to either save them and restore in the script above, or recreate
> them on every boot.


Enabling Container Support
--------------------------

Container support is not enabled by default because it is not a common
customer feature, it also prolongs build times a lot due to bringing in
a build-time dependency on Go.

However, customer specific builds may have it, and you can also roll
your own based on any of the available `defconfigs`.  For example:

    cd infix/
    make x86_64_defconfig

Run menuconfig, search for `podman` using `/`, enable it and build:

	make menuconfig
	...
	make

Enabling [podman][] select `crun`, `conmon`, and all other dependencies.
The build will take a while, but eventually you can:

    make run


Debugging Containers
--------------------

If the host system is not powered down or rebooted properly, containers
may not start up as they should on the following boot.  Below is a very
common problem and solution shown.

```
root@infix-12-34-56:~$ podman ps
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE       COMMAND     CREATED     STATUS      PORTS       NAMES
root@infix-12-34-56:~$ grep nginx /var/log/syslog
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx[2376] died, restarting in 5000 msec (10/10)
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2408]
Jun 25 10:15:53 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx keeps crashing, not restarting.
```

If this the system is isolated from remote network access, start by
verifying the image is downloaded:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman images
REPOSITORY                     TAG         IMAGE ID      CREATED      SIZE
docker.io/library/nginx        alpine      4937520ae206  10 days ago  43.2 MB
docker.io/troglobit/buildroot  latest      68faf6b20f1a  6 weeks ago  41.4 MB
```

OK, let's see what the `podman-service` step (above) created:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl show pod-nginx.conf
service name:pod :nginx podman run --name nginx --rm  -p 80:80 nginx:alpine   -- Nginx container
```

Try starting the container manually.  Remember to add the `-d` flag to
emulate detached/background operation:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman run --name nginx --rm -d -p 8080:80 nginx:alpine
Error: creating container storage: the container name "nginx" is already in use by 9c73bd8d505b1585d241595bfadede361b87f6c1be9a5656253b5a4d73da57e0. You have to remove that container to be able to reuse that name: that name is already in use
```

Aha, a lingering image with the same name!  Where is it?

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman ps --all
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE                                 COMMAND               CREATED            STATUS                        PORTS               NAMES
f3386ae9517f  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      ecstatic_panini
bf0c6178ea26  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      determined_brown
385155f479c0  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      vibrant_engelbart
99a1b3319d9e  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      dreamy_tesla
9c73bd8d505b  docker.io/library/nginx:alpine        nginx -g daemon o...  11 minutes ago     Created                       0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp  nginx
8a5290504ebc  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        10 minutes ago     Created                                           mystifying_liskov
```

Oh, we have two lingering containers that were created but did not stop
correctly.  Let's remove them:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ docker rm -f 9c73bd8d505b
9c73bd8d505b
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ docker rm -f 8a5290504ebc
8a5290504ebc
```

Now we can manually restart the (supervised) container:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl restart pod:nginx
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl status pod:nginx
     Status : running
   Identity : pod:nginx
Description : Nginx container
     Origin : /etc/finit.d/enabled/pod-nginx.conf
    Command : podman run --name nginx --rm -p 80:80 nginx:alpine
   PID file : none
        PID : 2669
       User : root
      Group : root
     Uptime : 15 sec
   Restarts : 11 (0/10)
  Runlevels : [---234-----]
     Memory : 63.8M
     CGroup : /system/pod-nginx cpu 0 [100, max] mem [0, max]
              ├─ 2669 podman run --name nginx --rm -p 80:80 nginx:alpine
              └─ 2816 conmon --api-version 1 -c 44d24aa7e98b67ff811596984462b902af3b09a04b4f9bef86e11d246b8cc2ff -u 44d24aa7e98b67ff8

Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx[2376] died, restarting in 5000 msec (10/10)
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2408]
Jun 25 10:15:53 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx keeps crashing, not restarting.
Jun 25 10:47:55 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2669]
```


[podman]: https://podman.io

Commit message:

doc/container.md: use unused host port 222 for container port 22
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

doc/container.md, after:

Containers in Infix
===================

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Docker Containers with Podman](#docker-containers-with-podman)
  * [Multiple Networks](#multiple-networks)
  * [Hybrid Mode](#hybrid-mode)
* [Enabling Containers](#enabling-containers)
* [Debugging Containers](#debugging-containers)


Introduction
------------

Default builds of Infix do not enable any container support.  See below
section, [Enabling Container Support](#enabling-container-support), for
details on how to enable it using Podman.

Networking in containers is provided by both Infix and the Container
Network Interface ([CNI](https://www.cni.dev/)) that Podman supports.


Docker Containers with Podman
-----------------------------

We assume you've booted into Infix and start with a familiar example:

    podman run -it --rm docker://hello-world

or a little web server:

    podman run -d --rm -p 80:80 docker://nginx:alpine

In detached (`-d`) state you can check the status using `podman ps` or
try to connect to the web server:

    curl http://localhost

or

    lynx http://localhost

> A convenience alias `docker=podman` is available, but remember, not
> all features or syntax of docker is available in podman.


### Multiple Networks

It is also possible to start a container with multiple networks.  The
approach shown here uses CNI profiles, which means the interfaces names
inside the container will always be: `eth0`, `eth1`, etc.

A common setup is to use a VETH pair, with one end in the container and
the other end routed, or bridged, to the rest of the world.  The Infix
[CLI Guide](cli.md) provides examples of both.  In either case you need
to create a matching CNI profile for one end of the VETH pair before
starting the container, here we use two network profiles, the default
podman bridge and the VETH profile:

     cni create host net1 veth0b 192.168.0.42/24
     podman run -d --rm --net=podman,net1 --entrypoint "/linuxrc" \
             --privileged docker://troglobit/buildroot:latest

The first profile (`podman`) is a the default bridged profile.  When a
container is started with that (default behavior), podman dynamically
creates a VETH pair which has one end attached as a bridge port in the
`cni-podman0` bridge managed by podman, and the other end is brought up
as `eth0` inside the container.

The second profile is the one we created, it uses the `host-device`
profile and does not create anything, it simply lifts the peer end of
the pair into the container as `eth1`.  This CNI profile can also be
used to hand over control of physical ports to a container.

> **Note:** here we start the container in `--privileged` mode.  This
> allows the container guest unfiltered access to the host system and it
> might not be what you want for a production system.  For that at least
> SECCOMP is recommended, which is out of scope for this tutorial.


### Hybrid Mode

If you've followed this tutorial then you now have a NETCONF based Infix
system running.  To run containers on it you need to leverage the Hybrid
mode, described in the README but also repeated below.

To start containers in *Hybrid Mode*, provided the images have been
downloaded with `podman pull docker://troglobit/buildroot:latest`):

```
root@infix:/cfg/start.d$ cat <<EOF >20-enable-container.sh
#!/bin/sh
# Remember to create the veth0a <--> vet0b pair in the CLI first!
cni create host net1 veth0b 192.168.0.42/24
podman-service -e -d "System container" -p "--net=podman,net1 -p 222:22 --entrypoint='/linuxrc' --privileged" buildroot:latest
exit 0
EOF
root@infix:/cfg/start.d$ chmod +x 20-enable-container.sh
```

Here we map the host port 222 to the SSH port of the container, but one
can just as easily map the host's port 22 (SSH).  Just make sure to
first disable the host's SSH service.

Reboot to activate the changes.  To activate the changes without
rebooting, run the script and call `initctl reload`.

> **Note:** the `/etc` directory is a `tmpfs` ramdisk and contents will
> be lost on reboot, so to retain custom CNI profiles after reboot you
> need to either save them and restore in the script above, or recreate
> them on every boot.


Enabling Container Support
--------------------------

Container support is not enabled by default because it is not a common
customer feature, it also prolongs build times a lot due to bringing in
a build-time dependency on Go.

However, customer specific builds may have it, and you can also roll
your own based on any of the available `defconfigs`.  For example:

    cd infix/
    make x86_64_defconfig

Run menuconfig, search for `podman` using `/`, enable it and build:

	make menuconfig
	...
	make

Enabling [podman][] select `crun`, `conmon`, and all other dependencies.
The build will take a while, but eventually you can:

    make run


Debugging Containers
--------------------

If the host system is not powered down or rebooted properly, containers
may not start up as they should on the following boot.  Below is a very
common problem and solution shown.

```
root@infix-12-34-56:~$ podman ps
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE       COMMAND     CREATED     STATUS      PORTS       NAMES
root@infix-12-34-56:~$ grep nginx /var/log/syslog
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx[2376] died, restarting in 5000 msec (10/10)
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2408]
Jun 25 10:15:53 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx keeps crashing, not restarting.
```

If this the system is isolated from remote network access, start by
verifying the image is downloaded:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman images
REPOSITORY                     TAG         IMAGE ID      CREATED      SIZE
docker.io/library/nginx        alpine      4937520ae206  10 days ago  43.2 MB
docker.io/troglobit/buildroot  latest      68faf6b20f1a  6 weeks ago  41.4 MB
```

OK, let's see what the `podman-service` step (above) created:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl show pod-nginx.conf
service name:pod :nginx podman run --name nginx --rm  -p 80:80 nginx:alpine   -- Nginx container
```

Try starting the container manually.  Remember to add the `-d` flag to
emulate detached/background operation:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman run --name nginx --rm -d -p 8080:80 nginx:alpine
Error: creating container storage: the container name "nginx" is already in use by 9c73bd8d505b1585d241595bfadede361b87f6c1be9a5656253b5a4d73da57e0. You have to remove that container to be able to reuse that name: that name is already in use
```

Aha, a lingering image with the same name!  Where is it?

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ podman ps --all
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE                                 COMMAND               CREATED            STATUS                        PORTS               NAMES
f3386ae9517f  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      ecstatic_panini
bf0c6178ea26  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      determined_brown
385155f479c0  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      vibrant_engelbart
99a1b3319d9e  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        About an hour ago  Exited (0) About an hour ago                      dreamy_tesla
9c73bd8d505b  docker.io/library/nginx:alpine        nginx -g daemon o...  11 minutes ago     Created                       0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp  nginx
8a5290504ebc  docker.io/troglobit/buildroot:latest                        10 minutes ago     Created                                           mystifying_liskov
```

Oh, we have two lingering containers that were created but did not stop
correctly.  Let's remove them:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ docker rm -f 9c73bd8d505b
9c73bd8d505b
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ docker rm -f 8a5290504ebc
8a5290504ebc
```

Now we can manually restart the (supervised) container:

```
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl restart pod:nginx
root@infix-12-34-56:/cfg/start.d$ initctl status pod:nginx
     Status : running
   Identity : pod:nginx
Description : Nginx container
     Origin : /etc/finit.d/enabled/pod-nginx.conf
    Command : podman run --name nginx --rm -p 80:80 nginx:alpine
   PID file : none
        PID : 2669
       User : root
      Group : root
     Uptime : 15 sec
   Restarts : 11 (0/10)
  Runlevels : [---234-----]
     Memory : 63.8M
     CGroup : /system/pod-nginx cpu 0 [100, max] mem [0, max]
              ├─ 2669 podman run --name nginx --rm -p 80:80 nginx:alpine
              └─ 2816 conmon --api-version 1 -c 44d24aa7e98b67ff811596984462b902af3b09a04b4f9bef86e11d246b8cc2ff -u 44d24aa7e98b67ff8

Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx[2376] died, restarting in 5000 msec (10/10)
Jun 25 10:15:48 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2408]
Jun 25 10:15:53 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Service pod:nginx keeps crashing, not restarting.
Jun 25 10:47:55 infix-12-34-56 finit[1]: Starting pod:nginx[2669]
```


[podman]: https://podman.io
