test/case/ietf_hardware/usb/Readme.adoc, before:

=== USB configuration
==== Description
This tests if the configuration is consistent with hardware state,
and if the USB ports are _locked_ (forbidden for use) and _unlocked_
(Ready for use) when they should. Also tests if this is the case during
reboot. This does not the test actual use of the USB port, it just checks
that the configured state is consistent with the hardware state.

If this pass you can be certain of that the configuration of the USB
port is handled correctly.

==== Topology
ifdef::topdoc[]
image::../../test/case/ietf_hardware/usb/topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::topdoc[]
ifndef::topdoc[]
ifdef::testgroup[]
image::usb/topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::testgroup[]
ifndef::testgroup[]
image::topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::testgroup[]
endif::topdoc[]
==== Test sequence
. Initialize
. Unlock all USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are unlocked
. Lock all USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are locked
. Remove all hardware configuration
. Verify that all USB ports are locked
. Unlock USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are unlocked
. Save the configuration to startup configuration and reboot
. Verify USB port remain unlocked after reboot


<<<

Commit message:

Minior fixes to Test Specs
Updating after comments from Axkar (thx!)

[skip ci]

test/case/ietf_hardware/usb/Readme.adoc, after:

=== USB configuration
==== Description
This test checks if the configuration is consistent with hardware state,
and verifies whether the USB ports are correctly _locked_ (restricted from
use) and _unlocked_ (available for use) when they should. It also verifies
this behavior during reboot. This test does not involve the actual use of
the USB port; it only ensures the configured state is consistent with the
hardware state.

If this pass you can be certain that the configuration of the USB
port is handled correctly.

==== Topology
ifdef::topdoc[]
image::../../test/case/ietf_hardware/usb/topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::topdoc[]
ifndef::topdoc[]
ifdef::testgroup[]
image::usb/topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::testgroup[]
ifndef::testgroup[]
image::topology.png[USB configuration topology]
endif::testgroup[]
endif::topdoc[]
==== Test sequence
. Initialize
. Unlock all USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are unlocked
. Lock all USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are locked
. Remove all hardware configuration
. Verify that all USB ports are locked
. Unlock USB ports
. Verify that all USB ports are unlocked
. Save the configuration to startup configuration and reboot
. Verify USB port remain unlocked after reboot


<<<
