test/docker/README.md, before:

Checklist for Updating Docker Image
===================================

This directory holds the Dockerfile and any extras needed to build and
update the infix-test container image used for the test system.

The following is a checklist/reminder to maintainers for how to update
the image, e.g., with missing Alpine packages.

 1. Update the Dockerfile
 2. Build the new image version, for latest version, see released images
    here: <https://github.com/kernelkit/infix/pkgs/container/infix-test>
	in this example we use version 0.4:

        docker build -t ghcr.io/kernelkit/infix-test:0.4 .

 3. Update the `test/env` file to use the new version
 4. Verify your new image works properly
 5. Send PR to co-maintainer for review

The co-maintainer should then verify themselves before approving the PR.
A crucial step to remember is to:

 1. Push the new image version to <https://ghcr.io>.  For instructions on
    how to do this, see [the GitHub Container Registry docs](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry)
 2. Merge the PR to the `main` branch.

> **Note:** the co-maintainer may delegate the chore of uploading the
> new image to the one who prepared the PR (you), provided of course
> they have the access rights to do so.

Commit message:

test/docker: update instructions on test and upload of new container
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

test/docker/README.md, after:

Checklist for Updating Docker Image
===================================

This directory holds the Dockerfile and any extras needed to build and
update the infix-test container image used for the test system.

The following is a checklist/reminder to maintainers for how to update
the image, e.g., with missing Alpine packages.

 1. Update the Dockerfile
 2. Build the new image version, for latest version, see released images
    here: <https://github.com/kernelkit/infix/pkgs/container/infix-test>
	in this example we use version 0.4:

        docker build -t ghcr.io/kernelkit/infix-test:0.4 .

 3. Update the `test/env` file to use the new version
 4. Verify your new image works properly (remember to remove your `~/.infix-test-venv`)
 5. Send PR to co-maintainer for review

The co-maintainer should then verify themselves before approving the PR.
A crucial step to remember is to:

 1. Push the new image version to <https://ghcr.io>.  For details on how
    to do this, see this excellent guide to the [GitHub Container
    Registry](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry):
 2. Shorthand after setup (above):

         echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u troglobit --password-stdin
         docker push ghcr.io/kernelkit/infix-test:0.4

 3. Merge the PR to the `main` branch.

> **Note:** the co-maintainer may delegate the chore of uploading the
> new image to the one who prepared the PR (you), provided of course
> they have the access rights to do so.
